# Step: GO Enrichment Analysis on Differentially Expressed Variables

Perform GO enrichment analysis on differentially expressed variables
using
[`glystats::gly_enrich_go()`](https://glycoverse.github.io/glystats/reference/gly_enrich_go.html).
This step requires one of the DEA steps to be run. Only execute for
glycoproteomics experiments with exactly 2 groups. If used for glycomics
experiments, the step will be skipped. Use all genes in OrgDb as the
background.

## Usage

``` r
step_sig_enrich_go(
  universe = "all",
  plot_type = "dotplot",
  plot_width = 7,
  plot_height = 7,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- universe:

  The universe (background) to use for enrichment analysis. One of "all"
  (all genes in OrgDb), "detected" (detected variables in `exp`).

- plot_type:

  Plot type for enrichment results ("dotplot", "barplot", etc.).

- plot_width:

  Width of the plot in inches. Default is 7.

- plot_height:

  Height of the plot in inches. Default is 7.

- ...:

  Additional arguments passed to
  [`glystats::gly_enrich_go()`](https://glycoverse.github.io/glystats/reference/gly_enrich_go.html).

## Value

A `glysmith_step` object.

## Details

Data required:

- `exp`: The experiment to perform GO enrichment analysis for

- `sig_exp`: The filtered experiment from DEA, generated by
  `step_dea_xxx()`.

Tables generated:

- `go_enrich`: A table containing the GO enrichment results.

## AI Prompt

*This section is for AI in
[`inquire_blueprint()`](https://glycoverse.github.io/glysmith/reference/inquire_blueprint.md)
only.*

- Include this step if needed.

- Leave `universe` to "all" (by default) unless the user explicitly
  mentions that the background should be the detected variables in
  `exp`.

- If the experiment has more than 2 groups but the user wants enrichment
  for a specific two-group comparison, ask which two groups to compare
  and include `step_subset_groups(groups = c("A", "B"))` before DEA and
  enrichment steps.

## See also

[`glystats::gly_enrich_go()`](https://glycoverse.github.io/glystats/reference/gly_enrich_go.html)

## Examples

``` r
step_sig_enrich_go()
#> <step "step_sig_enrich_go()"> GO enrichment analysis
step_sig_enrich_go(plot_type = "barplot")
#> <step "step_sig_enrich_go(plot_type = \"barplot\")"> GO enrichment analysis
```
